# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

-- console.rb

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

-- models/property.rb

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?

--Property.delete_all()
--property1.save()
--property2.save()
--property3.save()
--property1.delete()

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

-- Because we want that the database give the id number to the object, and when we instantiate it is not in the db yet.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

-- Inside the .save() defined as a method on the instance.

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

-- Because we can only give a value to the '@id' attribute if the 'id' key is exist in the passed options hash.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

-- Because some methods, like getting all data or delete everything, don't make sense to call on an individual objects.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

-- It returns an array with one hash item: for example [{"id" => "1"}]. So we need to access the first and only item, then the key, and finally change the data type to integer.

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

-- It is safer, more efficient and we can use placeholders with separated actual values, so it is easier to work with different data types.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

-- The `find_by_id` method takes the id number, the `find_by_address` takes the address of the searched item.

Q11. What are their return values?

-- They return the object of that specific property.
